## [00:00:00] Start

[00:00:00] **Brannon Jones:** So that's exactly what we see happening for deep
tech over the next 20 years. It's such an exciting time, in my opinion, for deep
tech, because the rules are still unwritten for deep tech. So if you and I were
making PayPal in the 90s.

[00:00:14] **Audrow Nash:** It’d be so much easier now.

[00:00:17] **Brannon Jones:** It'd be deep tech back then. Right? We need a full
team, we need scientists, we need researchers.

## [00:00:23] AlleyCorp Overview

[00:00:23] **Audrow Nash:** So now we are recording.

[00:00:24] **Brannon Jones:** Alright. Well, thanks so much for having me. My
name is Brannon Jones. As you mentioned. I'm an investor at AlleyCorp on our
deep tech team. In AlleyCorp’s early stage venture capital firm. We're
headquartered in New York City. Generally were pre-seed and seed. Maybe a little
bit of series A stage of companies where we will invest. But we'll come in at
the at the earliest round. So you have to like to be the first check. And
everybody in our company, regardless of which specific vertical they work on,
has an operating background. So we really feel like we can one lean and be
helpful. But to even just sympathize with the with the founders, on a personal
level. So, I've been in AlleyCorp for two years now. As part of our deep tech
team, we have four teams in total. So three other teams, so deep tech. We have
our diversified investing team, which will handle the majority of our software
investments. In kind of sector agnostic. We've got our healthcare investments
and then we've got our economic infrastructure team that we are fourth team. And
they focus a lot on workforce development. A little bit of food insecurity,
education technology, things like that. So, yeah, that's us in a nutshell.
Started as the family office of our CEO, an entrepreneur named Kevin Ryan, long
time entrepreneur in the New York ecosystem. Actually, many decades, career
marked by success, in the entrepreneurial sphere. Started out at DoubleClick.
Sold that to Google, founded MongoDB, founded Zol business insider, jock group.
It's, there's that that I'm sure I'm forgetting yet, but a lot, a lot of
success. And in many ways was one of the earliest people in in tech in NYC. In
some, I mean, won an award as the godfather of tech in NYC last year at the kind
of this Tech Hall of Fame thing. But actually it reflects and hearkens to our
name AlleyCorp. So it takes the name from back when they were coining the term
Silicon Alley to be the East Coast counterpart to Silicon Valley, which was
happening in the West Coast. And this was all happening a few decades ago when
he was doing, he was doing Double Click, and he was trying to bring tech talent
from California to New York and convince them to come here and say, hey, things
are happening. It's happening now. It's exciting. It's we got this big
billboard, it's Soho, and put it out and said, Welcome to Silicon Alley. And
wanted to coin that term. And, and that's actually, how when the term Silicon
Valley came about. But it's the roots of our name, Alec Corp. So, that we what
we call the fund, because of that.

[00:03:10] **Audrow Nash:** Hell yeah. Awesome. So a lot to talk about there.
What do you think of the New York tech scene in general? Like, I'm not too
familiar with it. I'd love to hear what you think about it, how it's going. I
don't know. How is it in general?

## [00:03:26] DeepTech

[00:03:26] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. New York tech scene. I mean, I was going to
say pleasantly surprised, but I shouldn't even be surprised. I would just say
pleased. It is growing. It is growing in terms of people is growing in terms of
productivity. We are adding jobs. So the tech scene is actually growing very
fast in New York. And, and according to some measurements, like one of the
faster growing ecosystems, I always think about the New York and East Coast tech
scene from the deep tech lens standpoint, of course, because that's where I
invested. Maybe I should also pause and say what I actually think deep tech is.
Sure, because people always ask me that. But, broadly speaking, it's kind of
science based innovations. And we think of it we what we call deep for us is
robotics and aerospace type startups, advanced manufacturing. And then finally,
a little bit of energy energy transition. And we really picked those areas
because again, we have operator background. Those are the areas where we have
experience. So my background was as mechanical and aerospace engineer, as a
roboticist. Then I was at SpaceX. I worked in both the Falcon program, which is
our legacy program, watching him landing rockets. And I worked in their R&D
program, Raptor as well. It was building robotic factories to build the first
versions of, of Raptor, which is the primary engine for their Starship vehicle,
which at a minimum is going to dramatically expand rideshare access to space for
people who want to send satellites up there, but eventually will also be the
vehicle that takes humanity to, Mars and beyond. So, that was a lot of fun. Then
from there went ran my own startup, both a hardware startup and an AI software
startup, and then business school and then after that, Alec caught.

[00:05:22] **Audrow Nash:** What was your hardware startup?

[00:05:24] **Brannon Jones:** So if you was in the fitness space. And so we were
making you were using thermoelectric to make ice packs, and, the CTO had come up
with, novel way to rapidly cool. That was it, fan based. So you'll see, like
Theragun or Hyperice that got these fan based cooling systems that you could
wrap around a needs like embedded into a knee wrap, but we had a thermoelectric
way that could get much colder, much more able to control, and so you could go
ahead and set your whole routine 20 minutes normal, 20 minutes cold on and off.
And you could have a raft and it could be much colder. So I was running, PCB
design, for them. For about I was with them for, for about five months. It was,
it was, pretty cool. A lot of fun. Yeah. Quick, quick stint. That one. Yeah.
There were some other team dynamics that I think made it maybe, a place where I
wasn't sure for how long to to stay around, but it was it was really fun. And a
great experience.

[00:06:26] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. Sometimes startup are chaotic, for sure. Okay,
so we've talked about New York. Tell me, so you've mentioned a little bit of
your background. What what did you so are you a mechanical engineer by trade or
what's your trade.

[00:06:40] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, mechanical engineer by training mechanical
and aerospace. Technically I studied that at Sweden. And basically really
specialized in robotics. And so that's what I was doing there. And then that's
also why it kind of made sense to be implementing robotic factories at SpaceX.
And actually, speaking of Princeton, makes me want to say one more thing about
your prior question with the New York ecosystem, which is that from the deep
tech standpoint, yes, California has the most density in terms of deep tech
startups. Boston, like deep tech per capita, is maybe number two. But New York
is coming up really fast at number three. And this when originally. Right.
That's the that's normal response. You're kind of a little bit a little bit
surprised by that. But actually when you think about it it does tend to make a
lot of sense. So of course what everyone thinks. Yes, we have a very mature
capital stack here with so many funders in the ecosystem, in a very mature
financial industry. Secondly, we have some of the top deep tech institutions in
the world right nearby. So again, I was Princeton, new Jersey, right across the
water. And you've got Yale here, you've got NYU here, you've got Columbia here.
You've got Carnegie Mellon down the way. I don't know, we could kind of co-opt
Penn into that space. And so you've got really a nexus of really high caliber
institutions that, put out great science. So that's number two. Number three is
just the pure diversity of New York, one of the most diverse cities in the
country. And then, of course, it's also dense as well. So because of that,
talent wants to be here. Talent is here. You can find what you're what you're
looking for it. And then finally, because kind of the political capital the city
has, it's an important city. It's one that sets many dreams, both culturally but
also from a regulatory standpoint. So all those things kind of come to make this
confluence that actually makes it makes sense for there to be tech startups. And
I think there should be more deep tech startups here in New York. I think that's
one of the reasons why we will continue to see more. And actually people forget
New York has a really deep legacy of of deep tech, actually. So the electric
grid invented by Thomas Edison here, the first industrial robots were installed
in Trenton, for GM building. Building cars, Bell Labs was about semiconductors
and telecom right there in person. There was lots of aviation. Some of the first
flights happened on Long Island. And there's a bunch of other industrial stuff
that I'm even forgetting. But New York has such a rich legacy of contributing in
extremely important technologies, I think semiconductor to to the world. And so
it actually makes sense to see some of this resurgence in deep tech here in New
York City. And selfishly, it's one of those opportunities where you come to a
major city and there's an awesome ingredients for an area and a community that
actually hasn't really been cultivated or, really brought to bear in a way. So
we had AlleyCorp want to be some of those people to, to, help bring up that deep
tech community here, here in New York.

[00:09:53] **Audrow Nash:** Okay. How do you so when you say New York, do you
mean like Manhattan or the surrounding areas or New York State? Because like
when I think of Manhattan, I think very space constrained. And that to me
doesn't necessarily scream deep tech. Like you can have a lot of the design and
coding and things like this. But how are you thinking of this?

## [00:10:14] AlleyCorp’s Reach

[00:10:14] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, to be fair, I do think we think about it
more broadly and holistically. Certainly the nexus of talent is is here close to
Manhattan or in Brooklyn. But upstate New York does a lot. There's a lot of
agriculture, there's a lot of shipping, there's a lot of ports, tons of
transportation. A majority of it actually comes down there, through there to
actually get into Manhattan. And so, new York State broadly, but even that kind
of tri state area, I, as I sort of mentioned, in roped into this whole
northeastern, area, really center to round and ground anchored by New York. But
it could be kind of tiny, dispersed even into new Jersey. There are some more
industrial areas, and we have some of our companies who find a lot of their work
there, either in construction or otherwise. Manhattan itself has some pretty
unique, pretty unique characteristics that could make it make sense for certain
deep tech companies. But I do agree, like at the macro level, it probably would
involve, some of the surrounding area. And I think that's a great thing.

[00:11:14] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. Okay. Hell yeah. So at AlleyCorp, are you
primarily funding New York based companies or are you guys funding companies all
over the place, or how does this work?

[00:11:27] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, so we are geography agnostic. We end up
funding a good number of New York based companies because we're here, boots on
the ground in those ecosystem, hosting events for the scientists at Columbia and
NYU know them well. So they come to us first. We've got a great relationship
now. But again, that's not that's not prescriptive and probably half of the
investments in our deep tech portfolio are actually on the West Coast. But we've
even got some that are there outside of the outside of the US. And that's and I
wouldn't be too abnormal for us. I think one of the things we try to prioritize,
especially early, like being an early investor or an early stage investor, is
that we want to invest somewhere that we can get to want to get to because we
want to go there. We want to see the tech, we want to be helpful. We want to
know the team, that we want to have that relationship. Those things make the
difference. In early stage far more than than in late stage. So, yeah, probably
50% of them on the West Coast. The rest are scattered or throughout the East
Coast. But we've got some in Boston, we've got some here and otherwise.

[00:12:32] **Audrow Nash:** Okay. Hell yeah. So when you talk about making, like
growing the New York ecosystem, it's like you're going to events, you're going
to the universities. This kind of thing, and they talk to you first. So this is
like a good way to help New York become more of a deep tech place. Is that fair
or what do you think. Yeah.

[00:12:53] **Brannon Jones:** You know that's absolutely right. It's a good way
to make deep tech more prevalent in New York. And it brings it to be top of mind
because again, all the ingredients are actually here already. It's just we want
to stir people to action and to give them that impetus to actually take those
steps and some of that is, is training knowledge pathways, access into
entrepreneurship for scientists, because it's actually pretty challenging to
navigate the world of entrepreneurship. Oh, totally. If you're a PhD, post-doc
industry researcher, I even think about myself as an engineer in industry and
just understanding the way into entrepreneurship. Yep. It's pretty ambiguous. So
some of the things that we'll do just to, to, to be practical about this is like
we would even work with universities to sponsor research at a lab and say, hey,
this research gets to a certain location, certain like milestone. We would spend
this out, we would help start up this company. Because I guess I should say this
at the beginning. AlleyCorp is also a venture studio, part of that DNA where
what does it mean?

[00:14:00] **Audrow Nash:** I don't know what a venture studio is.

[00:14:02] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, absolutely. So Venture Studio is a firm that
will also start new startups from scratch. So we'll come up with the idea. Cool.
Like a professional team, professionally starting new startups from scratch. And
that that comes from, again, the legacy of Kevin Wright. I mentioned because he
started MongoDB from scratch. He started a business, started Gill Corp., He
started all these companies. And so we've got a really strong muscle in terms of
how do you start a company in many very disparate industries? How do you start a
company and make one that's successful? What do you look for in a founding team?
How do you run it at the beginning? How do you get yourself set up? And so that
is one of the things that we do pride ourselves on. So when we're talking about
nuclear dating, the deep tech industry here in New York City, one of the core
ways we do that is interacting with all of those great resources that I
mentioned to say, hey, can we bring them together? And rallied around an idea, a
technology, a team, give them the funding they need, give them the
infrastructure they need, give them business plan, support them, as a firm and
let those teams go in and build companies and be really successful. So in deep
tech in particular, some of the ways that's looked has been through the through
the universities, as I mentioned. But that I think is a is a key piece of
building the, building the ecosystem, as well as drawing awareness, to, to the
ecosystem. And as we continue to see winners, great companies that are built and
funded in New York City and in the area, investors will begin to understand what
that looks like, begin to be able to really intuitively, understand how to
invest in those companies, get excited about them. And, and of course, we want
to be the champions and, and biggest cheerleaders for, for that wave.

## [00:15:43] Portfolio Highlights

[00:15:43] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah for sure. So I think let's see, we talk about a
plan at the beginning. I think I want to pivot just a little bit. And what I
want to do now is talk about some of the portfolio that you guys have. And then
what I'd like to do from there is just ask a lot of questions about the
investment climate and your perspective, on investing in robotics companies and
a bunch of things around this, but, so what? Tell me about your portfolio. Tell
me about the robotics companies or general deep tech companies that you have.
I'd love to hear kind of the stage when you were involved, and it'd be very cool
to say how you're helping them in addition to funding them. I know it's a lot,
but I'd love to see how it goes. Cool. Yeah, let's do it.

[00:16:29] **Brannon Jones:** I want to see how it goes, too. So, we've got
about 18 deep tech companies right now, and that's across robotics, aerospace,
manufacturing, energy. Now, initially when we started building out this deep
tech team because it's been around for about three years now, it started as
purely robotics. And that made sense for a lot of reasons. The biggest reason is
that, technological readiness level for robotics is the highest among pretty
much any deep tech technology that you would still consider. Deep tech, where
there's still a good amount of scientific research that needs to be done to
bring that company or that technology to bear.

[00:17:06] **Audrow Nash:** So we start hanging fruit. Basically, in robotics,
given the state of technology.

## [00:17:11] Eyebot Kiosk

[00:17:11] **Brannon Jones:** That's exactly right. That's that is exactly how
we felt when we came up with the conceptual agreement for our deep tech
vertical. So we started in robotics. So majority of our companies are in
robotics. And then, a little over a year ago, we expanded to add on the other
categories that I mentioned. So I'll talk to a few, a couple maybe, or one or so
in each of those different areas. But on the robotics side, one of the companies
that, yeah, I mean, we're excited about all of our companies. One of the
companies I'll mention is EyeBot E-Y-E-bot and the name, the eponymously named
eyebot they give eye exams. It's a kiosk that can be placed in a public location
that has a lot of foot traffic and a person can come up to that kiosk, stand a
couple feet away and get an eye exam in 90s. It'll test all the visual acuity.
It'll even give them the option to buy the prescription right there on on the,
touch screen that's embedded in the kiosk. So you can go get it. Cheap price.
Then you can also even buy contacts or glasses right there, too. That will get
mailed, to the house or wherever you want it to. Yeah, it takes it nice.

[00:18:19] **Audrow Nash:** It's great.

[00:18:20] **Brannon Jones:** It's like a. Yeah, in a way. Anything it doesn't
spit out there, it doesn't spit out the eyeglasses itself. But yeah, it is it is
true to the point you're making a familiar kind of a form factor that people are
used to. And what's interesting, 60% of people in the world need glasses. And,
maybe even 60%.

[00:18:41] **Audrow Nash:** That's crazy.

[00:18:43] **Brannon Jones:** And 65% need vision correction. Yeah. So huge
market. So many people need this. And of course, right now everybody has to go
to the doctor annually or every six months, get a prescription. It's kind of a
hassle that doesn't really need to exist when you think about it like just from
an engineering lens, a first principles thinking. Lynch why does it need to be
that way? And so these this team has come up with some really, really exciting
refractory technology that sends light into your eyes. You don't have to be
super close to it. It comes back extremely accurate. And they did a bunch of
tests comparing the fit of the contacts and glasses to a human doctor, and it's
actually better now. We still have doctors approve everything. And so, it ends
up being a seamless experience for the user, but they're doing really well. And
they're one that we're excited, excited to back. And so they're not so much
traditional robot as you might think of many moving parts. And we do have we do
have robot robots. So we're here for that too. But that's more of a hardware
play. But kind of gives you a representation of something that we were excited
about it and the kind of fundamental thesis behind that is really
democratization of access. And that'll actually be a key theme that you see
across our thesis, how we decide what we want, what we want to invest in across
this, the tech verticals. But democratization, you mean. So for example. Oh,
well, makes sense. I buy this democratization of access to to. Yeah, exactly.
But it's it's broadening accessibility, whether that's reducing cost barriers or
otherwise. And so in many ways, our investments in the space sector are really
thinking about, that broadened access and the infrastructure that needs to be
built to support that. So when you have something like space, dramatically
reducing cost of getting to space like orders of magnitude, probably 100 x now
is probably, you know, in today's dollars $100,000 per kilogram in 1984, if
you're sending stuff up for a space shuttle, by the time we get to, Falcon one,
maybe it's 10,000. Falcon nine is maybe 5000 Falcon hoagies, maybe 1000. So we
we've already seen 100 X, and then you're talking about Starship, which is
supposed to be on the order of hundreds of dollars per kilogram, maybe 100 bucks
per kilogram is what they're trying to hit. Bonkers and X reduction and in in
price to get to space. Like if you make anything a thousand times cheaper,
people are going to start doing that thing. So that's what we think about
democratization. Okay. So let's say people start doing their thing okay. What
breaks in the system next? What needs to exist? What kind of what.

[00:21:25] **Audrow Nash:** Are the next bottlenecks I see?

[00:21:27] **Brannon Jones:** What are the next.

[00:21:28] **Audrow Nash:** Bottleneck after bottleneck to get bottleneck
efficient.

[00:21:31] **Brannon Jones:** That's right. Yeah. People start putting things in
space. Those things are going to need to get monitored. There's going to need to
get maintained. They'll need to get moved around to be protected, whether
that's, you know, cyber counterintelligence, those kinds of things. So it's,
yeah, it just really, really helps to think about the future and help you see
around corners in that way. When we think about, okay, here's the democratizing
trend. Anytime we see democratization of this, and there's massive uptake, it
creates new industries. Yeah. Yeah.

[00:22:03] **Audrow Nash:** So I guess when you democratize something, you give
access to it. And that creates growth. And that's something that you as
investors are interested in. Because if more people, it's like a network effect
kind of thing where it gets more and more valuable, how replicate. That's a cool
way to look at it. So you democratize things and that leads to growth. And
that's why it might be a good investment.

## [00:22:25] SaaS vs. DeepTech

[00:22:25] **Brannon Jones:** Cool. Yeah. And we sort of think, you know, maybe
this is one of those investor type phrases, but we sort of think of it as the
non-linear unlock. When you can get so many technology start within government
or DoD or a niche use case, and then they commercialize and that's the
non-linear unlock, and you can bring them to the masses. That's the
democratizing moment. That's when you really see massive uptake. So that's kind
of the sort of example that we are that we are, interested in. And you see that
across, you know, semiconductors, which started, I mean, I guess, how does
semiconductor started, to calculate missile trajectories for the government
because they literally didn't have enough compute to make sure the missiles got
where they needed to be. But now they're in every single electronics device. And
that's when you think about the non-linear because the cost came down. So,
things like that is what sort of trends we're trying to to back. And how do we
support those changes as they're coming in. So I mean, yeah.

[00:23:25] **Audrow Nash:** One thing that's interesting to me is that kind of
thinking is what has led to a lot of investment in software as a service models,
for my perspective. But you guys are going into deep tech as well as a few other
areas, but how are you thinking of this? Because the point of software as a
service is like, you code it once anyone can use it. And that's why it's been a
fairly sexy business model. But but so why deep tech? And how are you thinking
about it kind of coexisting within this scaling framework? Oh, yeah.

[00:23:59] **Brannon Jones:** Absolutely. So. SaaS has been a great business
model. It has shown itself to be that way. But it is probably important to
remember that it didn't exist. 20 years ago, and it almost wasn't a crazy. It
was an emergent business model. The rules for SaaS rule of 40, whatever asset
intensity you should have, what your net dollar retention should be, what all
those financial terms people you use to quantify whether or not a SaaS business
is good, those didn't exist 20 years ago. And they happen from investors saying,
oh, I see that the internet is changing everything. The access to software,
again, democratization of people being able to build tools is changing
everything. And they almost had to just believe that people were solving a real
problem. And then over time, it's almost a lagging measure. We went back and you
said, oh, here, the creator of this business, I want to find traits in other
business similar that match that, and that's what we think. So that's exactly
what we see happening for deep tech over the next 20 years. It's such an
exciting time, in my opinion, for deep tech, because the rules are still
unwritten. For deep tech. We see all these changes. We see improvements in both
semiconductor cost and performance. We see falling hardware costs. We see aging
demographic. Obviously, we see all the improvements in AI, in the hype around
it. We see improvements in connectivity, in 5G, we see demand for for e-commerce
and shipping and more need for those kinds of logistics and automation. And then
then obviously, there's, you know, all the questions about global
competitiveness, globalization, reshoring, manufacturing, revitalizing industry
here, all of those kind of come together and say, okay, this is going to be an
exciting time for D tech. And we really believe those are going to drive demand
and make some really, really big companies. The kind of on the scale of which we
haven't really seen in mass in deep tech yet. And that's kind of what makes it
most exciting. Now back to SaaS. We're thinking about it still obviously great
business models, but in a way, for us as deep tech investors, the investing
style and strategy is changing within SaaS because it's a more known entity and
also because I in many ways is leading to the commoditization of production of
of software tools. Right. So if you and I were making PayPal in the 90s.

[00:26:29] **Audrow Nash:** Be so much easier now. Yeah.

[00:26:31] **Brannon Jones:** It'd be deep tech backed it. Right. We need a full
TV scientist. We need researchers today. We just need a weekend. And a couple
good AI agents. I mean, probably we're coding, you know, just text today, like,
you know, speaking. Get it? And then it's coding for us. Yeah. And so you see
that trend and what that really coding is. Yeah. What that really means is I
think it's going to be potentially harder to deploy massive, massive amounts of
funding into software as the costs continue to drop, which is a good thing for
everybody. Did the cost drop that people are seeing productive tools? Deep tech
again, is the untamed frontier still wild with the creativity of all the
scientists out there in the natural world and all these incredible scientific
discoveries. And so I think that we one will be able to invest many different
ventures to, I think, the deep tech investors who are leading the way there will
set the standard for for what it looks like to invest in deep tech. They'll set
the standard, they'll set the rules, they'll they'll make up the new metrics and
heuristics that the industry will adopt over the next 20 years as we continue to
see winners. And that's what we that's what we want to do. That's what I want to
do. That's when I'm answering your question of how I think. That's why I'm
excited about. That's one of the reasons why I'm so excited, because it also can
be some of the most transformative technologies, even if you I mean, I was
talking about Bell Labs earlier, so they're on my mind. But even you think about
all the work they did around telecommute locations back into all of that. We
wouldn't have modern phones if they hadn't been working on that. And even that
that scientific discovery, hard research. Just think about how much communicate
has totally revolutionized.

[00:28:09] **Audrow Nash:** Oh, totally. Yeah. We're you're in New York. I'm in
Texas. It's crazy.

[00:28:13] **Brannon Jones:** How true. That's right, that's right. Yeah. So
deep tech companies have the ability to be the most transformative cars, phones,
semiconductors, planes to really shape culture, really shape our environment.
And so it's not that I see anything wrong with test businesses or like they're
not exciting to me, but when I just think about impact for dollar, I get really
excited about deep tech and how could could literally shape our physical
infrastructure or culture or environment, those kind of things.

## [00:28:46] Portal Space

[00:28:46] **Audrow Nash:** Oh, everything. Yeah, for sure. And I'm interested
in talking about a lot of the things you mentioned, the globalization, these
kinds of things. But let's keep going with your portfolio. So we have this
EyeBot one that seemed really cool. You mentioned a little bit of space. I don't
know if you want to talk more about that.

[00:29:02] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, yeah. We've got a great new space
investment. And this one we are so excited about. It's actually probably our
first actual, space investment. Now, because I told you we kind of expanded into
deep tech. Recently, we've been looking at the space sector, but still space is
still emerging. It's still nascent, still dominated by the major players. And so
we've been trying to pick our our investments pretty selectively. So this will
be our first one. This one is called Portal Space and we are so excited about
them. They are building a new type of thruster for satellites for in-space
movement. So your satellite can navigate around. They offer 10 to 20 times as
much thrust as what's now available on most satellites. If you're just if you
and I were going to put a satellite up there. Okay.

[00:29:55] **Audrow Nash:** I don't I don't really know the state of satellite.
Yeah. Satellite tech for this kind of thing. So 10 to 20 times sounds like a
huge improvement to. How is it done now? How are they doing it?

[00:30:09] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. So space is the space is all about
conservation of momentum is the way that people move around. So you take a,
pressurized can and you squeeze it and it shoots out and you fly, fly back the
other way. And that is how satellite.

[00:30:26] **Audrow Nash:** You shoot out mass in one direction.

[00:30:28] **Brannon Jones:** Shoot out mass. And functionally, that's that's I
mean, that's what every rocket thruster for a satellite or an engine for an
actual rocket does. And that's what our Raptor engines do. They just shoot out a
ton of mass, and the more you heat it up, the more mass you can shoot out
without using about your fuel. So they have it's it's bonkers. It is bonkers.
And you look at the efficiency and they are just like bonkers percent. Yeah.
Yeah. Totally crazy. Incredible machine. So, and so what they've done is they
are building a system to actually vary efficiently, use a liquid propellant and,
shoot it out very fast without needing to, implement many moving parts or a lot
of, energy even. And so because of that, they can do that at high flow rates.
High flow rates means they're basically putting out a lot of fuel. If you put
out a lot of fuel very fast, you get a lot of thrust going the other way. And
they the insight actually came from an engineer, who was an engineering leader
at SpaceX, for a long time, developing the Raptor engine. So the weapons I
built, he designed. I didn't know him at the time. Yeah. But, super cool.
Definitely always fun to connect to the space network. And that was where the
core insight came from. And this actually makes me, you know, just talk about
the future of DPC in terms of we're seeing some deep tech winners in the Tesla,
say, and rules the space X. Oh yeah, totally in the Morpheus from those Morpheus
meaning the alumni from them who leave them and start companies are bringing so
much knowledge, not only technical knowledge, like from a research standpoint,
but knowledge about how you actually build a company. How do you actually get a
whole bunch of engineers who all think they know the right way and no one else
does, and get them to productively move forward, at incredible speeds? That's
what they're bringing. And that is what the startup world has, has needed, for,
for deepfakes. That's one of the big catalysts changes. That's why we're so
excited about portal.

[00:32:31] **Audrow Nash:** So, anything else to mention on this portal space?

## [00:32:35] Aescape Massage Robot

[00:32:35] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. I mean, I think that the reason that we like
them and I guess is one piece I didn't say is they provide infrastructure for
the new space economy. So when you say, okay, maybe there's 10,000 satellites in
space and we think there's going to be ten times that in the next ten years,
well, mobility becomes extremely important. When you think about national
security, when you think about, monitoring mobility becomes extremely important.
And so if they have the most mobile platform, they are providing infrastructure
that everybody will need, government need, commercial need. And that's why we
think it's a democratizing. It's a democratizing trend. Because even if you can
commission their satellite to to go and do an operation for you, and it's, it's
space, you don't have a logic up there. You can just rent time and have it go do
something for you, move around your satellite, check something out. You're
giving so much, you're making access to space actually tenable and affordable.
So that that's one of the reasons why we're really pumped about about them. So
that's one in space. So I give you a robot one, I give you a space one, I give
you a one that I'd.

[00:33:41] **Audrow Nash:** Love more of a robot. One because eyeglasses. Yeah.
I mean, my my thought on robot is as long as it senses things and acts with. I
think these vending machines that do your glasses do, or like scan your eyes.
Do. But, any like mobile robots, robotic arm stuff. I don't know. We got it
annoys whatever else you got. You got it.

[00:34:03] **Brannon Jones:** All, baby. Okay, so let me tell you about the next
one, so I'll give you one more. You like? This is a New York one for you. And I
also think shows a great example of how robots are starting to have that
nonlinear unlock by breaking into traditionally non automated sectors. This one
is called Aescape It's spelled like escape. But with an A at the beginning
Aescape. They are a robotic massage table. So you imagine a massage that's got
two robotic arms on top with. They've got specialized ins that, allow them to
actually perform the massage like a masseuse. You lay on the table, you're
looking at an iPad beneath it's a flat panel, and you see basically your own
body. Now you wear a special type of, athletic wear that has these micro sensors
in it that the robots are trained to see. So you get your own, just like you
wear your little limited gym, you wear your your.

[00:34:53] **Audrow Nash:** So it gets your shape because your shape is super
hard to detect and stuff. So you have these markers. And so that's how you get
the body texture.

[00:35:01] **Brannon Jones:** So exactly. That's exactly right. And then the
robotic arms come and give you massage. You can then hilariously choose where
you want it to be. You can adjust the pressure. You can control the music in the
room, controlled lighting. And they are doing phenomenally well. They just
raised an 83 million, dollar, series fee to expand the robotic massage. Wow.

[00:35:20] **Audrow Nash:** Very appealing. That's awesome. Yeah.

[00:35:22] **Brannon Jones:** They're doing great. And they're just down the
street here in New York. So that's what I'm saying. They're fantastic robotics
companies that are, that are emerging here on the East Coast. But, you think
like New York is probably the right place for that, because they'll be able to
expand with a luxury gyms, hotel chains. That's where they've seen a ton of
traction. And it's an industry that is, you know, dull, dirty, dangerous. The
things that people talk about, being factors where it makes sense to automate.
If you talk about, like, being a massage therapist, it's actually, a lot of
chance, a very high chance. An injury.

[00:35:58] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. Super rare. It's hard to access emotions.

[00:36:01] **Brannon Jones:** Super repetitive motion.

[00:36:02] **Audrow Nash:** They put a lot of force for sure. They it's like
they need massages because giving massages, intense kind of thing.

[00:36:11] **Brannon Jones:** It is hard to go get and find a massage. And so
this is another kind of democratizing trend in itself. But they're doing
extremely well. They've got a big team. They are moving fast. And their table
works great I think two years ago.

[00:36:25] **Audrow Nash:** Have you done it.

[00:36:25] **Brannon Jones:** When I first met. Yeah, that's exactly I was going
to say, because they're here, I just will pop over there. And I was so I was
doing the demos and so I had the, the healthy portion of, of cash. And when I
was doing it. But even back then, even two years ago, it was actually a
fantastic massage. And so it's it's only better now. So, that's kind of to.

[00:36:46] **Audrow Nash:** Compare, like, I mean, if you go to like a really
good Thai massage. Yeah. I have a hard time imagining a robot being close to as
good as that, but like an average one where they're not as knowledgeable or as
focused or things like this. Like, how do you think of it in terms of quality?
And I'm sure that being invested in them, you want to say that's very good, but
like, how do you think of the quality for everything? Oh, it's very good.

[00:37:10] **Brannon Jones:** Top tier. Okay. So no, I'll give you my real
answer, which is that it is good, but that you would probably want to start to
evaluate it. And you will value your massage slightly differently. You will you
will evaluate the quality of your massage slightly differently.

[00:37:25] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. Because there's quantity. You could do
infinite quantity if you have access to an infinite.

[00:37:28] **Brannon Jones:** Quantity and you have infinite control ability.
And that's what you don't have in a great time massage. They're going to do
whatever, they're going to put you in a pretzel and you're going to like, oh my
gosh, that's what I need right now. I feel great after. Yeah, yeah, you can tell
them. But then you'd have to be speaking the whole time. This you have so much
more control. You can go.

[00:37:45] **Audrow Nash:** Quite good on an idea. It's so funny.

[00:37:47] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. So it's so it's it's high quality in the
sense that you can get exactly what you need. They can provide the pressure that
you need. Certainly a person will have more dexterity at the end of their. Yeah.
The robot can't. So for I think the very high end type of Thai massage. Yeah.
You know, there are places only a person will be able to,

[00:38:07] **Audrow Nash:** To. Yeah. Good for now for this guy. If for now.
Yeah. For now, if you, It'd be it'd be funny to do, like, I don't know, machine
learning in some way where they're doing reinforcement learning or something
like this where you or supervised learning, I guess, where you can click and
give it a reward at the end and then it, it hill climbs to find really good ones
for you or something like that. But the space is so difficult that I think
that'd be hard. Like the optimization space. But yeah, I do, I do kind.

[00:38:34] **Brannon Jones:** Of giving it a digital tip. Yeah, yeah yeah, yeah,
exactly.

[00:38:38] **Audrow Nash:** That's I don't like it. Whatever. How is it? And
also because you have the iPad there, you could like for every thing it's doing,
you could give it feedback pretty frequently just selecting a spot. How is this
last thing. That's a funny thing. So it's kind of like the way I'm imagining it
is. It's like between a massage chair and a person, maybe like halfway or a
little closer to the person. Or did you say.

[00:39:02] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, I would say it's it's much closer to a
person than a massage chair in terms of how you'll feel in the experience that
you'll have. Yeah.

[00:39:09] **Audrow Nash:** Because you're not in the uncomfortable chair and
everything too.

[00:39:12] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. In those those arms have six degrees of
freedom or even more. Yeah. And so really. Yeah. You can really get now does.

[00:39:20] **Audrow Nash:** It, does it focus primarily on your back or does it
do like arms forearms, fingers like these kinds of things. Because these are I
imagine it would be much harder.

[00:39:28] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. So when you start talking about fingers and
you need that kind of next level of dexterity, this thing is mostly here with,
with no pressure nubs that are, you know, proprietary, patented, very specially
designed nubs right there. They are specially affected.

[00:39:42] **Audrow Nash:** The technical nub. Yeah.

[00:39:44] **Brannon Jones:** No, they don't have fingers. So yeah, they can
totally do shoulders, arms, back legs. Yeah. But if you're really talking about
like getting into to small tissue in between bones and joints, that's on the
future roadmap. That'll be version two.

[00:40:01] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. I would love like a smaller nub that they
could get, like, I don't know, in between your shoulder blades or stuff like
this. Like, that'd be super nice.

[00:40:08] **Brannon Jones:** And they design it with, like, quick disconnects
to change out the.

[00:40:11] **Audrow Nash:** Oh I'm.

[00:40:11] **Brannon Jones:** Sure. I think it's more about to the point. You
originally made scale of data in totally control and you know, so I 100% those
things will come down the pipeline. Now on the boat, Matt.

[00:40:23] **Audrow Nash:** What's so exciting about their series B, though?
That's so cool because that's, so have they, they've really proven a market with
that because B, you're scaling for this kind of thing. Yeah. Yeah, yeah.

[00:40:34] **Brannon Jones:** Generally that's, that is the big thing. They have
proven that people want this and there's a few elements to it, which is one that
they are solving a problem that people want massages kind of inaccessible.
People have different comfort levels with massages and want more and less
control done. That's what you kind of think of. The other piece is that for the
customers who are actually adopting this technology, it also provides, some
other second order intangible benefits, which is like, hey, more people may come
to my gym if there's a massage table here.

[00:41:10] **Audrow Nash:** Oh yeah. So it's a wonderful gimmick too. Yeah. I
mean, wonderful kids stuff like, oh, I'm going to choose the one like that one
has the good exercise stuff, but this one has a robot that massages you. Yeah
for sure.

[00:41:20] **Brannon Jones:** So even if it didn't work and it does work, it
does work really well.

[00:41:23] **Audrow Nash:** It's a good gimmick.

[00:41:24] **Brannon Jones:** But even if it didn't work, it provides value to
those customers by enhancing the brand, by bringing more foot traffic and some
of those other things. And so that's so cool to see. That's been cool to see
them go through. Okay, is a term I'm just going to throw out now called human
acceptance testing instead of user acceptance testing, human acceptance testing
being it needs to be accepted by humanity broadly society. It needs to fit into
the ways that we already think about the world, and we already think about
culture. And from that standpoint, they have nailed their human acceptance
testing beyond just the user who actually wants a massage. So that's that's one
of the things that leads to that kind of non-linear unlock, why they've been
able to scale, why they've been able to get that traction, and of course raise a
great round.

[00:42:10] **Audrow Nash:** I I'm sure that they did a good job with this, but I
also thinking about it, I'm having a hard time imagining why it would be so
difficult because I think people would just go, oh, massage chair, but better
and that kind of thing. But what do they do? Well, for human acceptance testing
or why is it more complex than what I think?

[00:42:30] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, actually, one of the things I was talking to
the CEO about this recently, but, they spent a lot of time in two phases where I
think a lot of deep tech companies don't spend enough time. One of them was
actually in the book, the industrial design, the physical mockups. They spent a
lot on going through those, making sure that it was something that was
esthetically.

[00:42:51] **Audrow Nash:** Pleasing and everything has to feel like a luxury
experience.

[00:42:54] **Brannon Jones:** Right? And not a terrifying torture contraption,
which we could easily write if I, if you and I on first principles, were just
going to design one of these things, it might be a little bit terrifying. So
they spent,

[00:43:05] **Audrow Nash:** We'll see you and you get a Kuka arm or some, some
gigantic arm that can move cars or something like that would be crazy.

[00:43:14] **Brannon Jones:** That would be scary, right? So they got cobots
right attached to the table, but also the way that it looks, the form factor.
Yeah, they did a lot of looks like prototype. And we they were literally almost
making almost making arts and crafts in sculpture to find out. Hey, what do
people like, what do they want to have around. What are the ground? Oh super
cool. When are they most comfortable? What are they not. That's number one.
Number two is they have been brilliant with their marketing. They have been
brilliant. So they tapped into lifestyle influencers. They been on social media,
they've had features. And the biggest publications, they were on the New York
Times Best Inventions for 2024 list. I can't get in the back of a cab without
seeing the little archway in the screen in the back here, in here in New York,
because they were so focused on controlling the messaging around it. And they.
Yeah, that they that part of that human acceptance testing of, of getting
through that social, that kind of social evaluation. So, very, very clever by
the CEO. And not enough robotics companies do this, not enough to keep that 100%
with you. Yeah. Yeah.

[00:44:19] **Audrow Nash:** Distributional distribution is key. Right. And
marketing is a huge part of that. So it's really nice to hear about robotics
companies doing that. Well I feel like a lot of times we nail the tech less
frequently, nail the market and the tech, and then less frequently nail the
distribution market and tech.

## [00:44:39] Valar Atomics

[00:44:39] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah that's right. No, absolutely. And so that was
one of the things they focus on a lot is just make sure, making sure that even
in a distribution a key piece is the perception 100%. When you go out into an
area that's highly dynamic and you actually want I do to interact with people.
People's general mode of being is if it looks like garbage, it is garbage. In a
car factory. Doesn't matter. It just needs to be functional. But out in the real
world, you got to be thoughtful with those things.

[00:45:07] **Audrow Nash:** Very cool. Okay. I want to bring up one more startup
or so.

[00:45:12] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. Oh, absolutely. So this one would be, kind
of probably more squirrely in our energy transition, but also leans in with
manufacturing. This one is called Valar Atomics. They just came out of still.

[00:45:27] **Audrow Nash:** Great names for all your companies, by the way.

[00:45:29] **Brannon Jones:** I think so, too. I think so too. We I do think we
like to pick, back teams that understand how to tell the story, understand our
mission. And naming is probably so it's a piece of that. So maybe I'll go run
some analytics on it after seeing how many of our best performers had great
names. Anyway.

[00:45:46] **Audrow Nash:** All of them.

[00:45:47] **Brannon Jones:** But yeah, I'm sure, Valar Atomics Atomics, they
just came out of stealth with the $19 million seed round, maybe a couple months
ago. And they are building new reactors. Big seed. But nuclear fission.

[00:46:01] **Audrow Nash:** Nuclear. Yeah. Okay. So, yeah, energy is super
expensive, I think. I don't know much, but, it seems to me to be the case.

[00:46:09] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. So, I mean, some of the infrastructure costs
can be expensive to get to get set up, but their whole idea is, they want to
provide energy very cheaply, and they're doing some pretty exciting things.
They're not only thinking about how do we they're not like, they're not thinking
about nuclear in the same way that everybody else's. They're not trying to do
create hydrogen in or go through an atrocious process. Okay.

[00:46:35] **Audrow Nash:** I don't know anything really about nuclear. Yeah,
too. I would love the basics of it. So, like, my model is you have something
that generates heat, that generates steam, that pushes a turbine, and that makes
electricity. But you need something to make the heat. So you make the steam. Is
that correct?

[00:46:51] **Brannon Jones:** That's exactly right. So that's tradition where
people use nuclear force to create that heat, to create steam. Now there's a new
crop of nuclear, of companies, I guess, who are trying to create basically green
hydrogen. And some folks are trying to do that with nuclear. These guys, they
want to create extremely high heat to create green hydrogen. They want to
separate the so hot that it separates the water molecules. Then they want to
take that hydrogen that's been separated out from the water, and they want to
put it through another industrial process where they effectively combine it
with, carbon dioxide and they use a process to separate the oxygen from the
carbon dioxide, and they get the hydrogen and the carbons to bond together
through a well known industrial process. So what you're spitting out at the end
of this machine is actually hydrocarbons. It's methanol. It's unrefined jet
fuel. Oh and so what they actually want to create is nuclear synthetic fuels
green jet fuel. Green diesel green gasoline, net zero gasoline. It takes in
carbon dioxide turns it back in the fuel. And it's a phenomenal idea.

[00:48:00] **Audrow Nash:** It's so freaking cool. Yeah.

[00:48:02] **Brannon Jones:** It's so energy dense. It's the most energy dense
transportation. There's already a massive market. Everyone uses, hydrocarbons
right now. And if you can do that in a way that's that's actually beneficial for
the environment or doesn't hurt it, then your distribution check, you already
know that there's a massive market for it because you think about it, the
biggest, the biggest oil companies are sovereign nations. So massive, massive
market, massive, massive demand if they can get this right. So they are cleverly
combining a few different types of science, to get to that end goal. And at each
step, even if they just create high heat that can be used for industry, to
create a variety of, of raw materials. So they are yeah, they're one we're super
excited about to back and they're at LA. So one of our examples of a is West
Coast way.

[00:48:50] **Audrow Nash:** Hell yeah. Yeah. That's cool. I just the thing I
understand is they're taking the normal process and they're making, byproducts
more productive for this kind of thing. So you can also generate energy for
that. So it's like you get two for the price of 1 or 2 for, I don't know, the
price of one and a half or something like that, which is awesome. Super cool.

[00:49:10] **Brannon Jones:** Exactly right. Yeah. And so they can get
extremely, extremely cheap prices for hydrogen, which ultimately leads to cheap
prices for, hydrocarbons. So very excited about them. And we've got, a number of
others we got, just list them off.

## [00:49:24] Koop Technologies

[00:49:24] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. Go ahead. Yeah. Koop is awesome. So I did an
interview with Sergey Little. He's awesome. Yeah. He's six. Robotics
infrastructure, robotics tooling such a good thing.

[00:49:35] **Brannon Jones:** Yes. Okay. Amen.

[00:49:38] **Audrow Nash:** So they do insurance just to say they're great
insurance for robotics startups. They're wonderful.

[00:49:43] **Brannon Jones:** They're wonderful. And they are doing so well
because they're betting on a growing industry. Same as we're talking about
democratization. Well, if I had a doctor in access to build robots, who is
insuring them because they all are going to need this liability coverage, and
they have found a way to quantify and underwrite the chance very effectively.
Misbehaves and doesn't do something it's supposed to do. And they insure that.
And because they actually get the pricing right, they can offer very low prices,
which, you know, who likes private low prices is startups because they don't
have any money. So these they are quickly taking the market by offering them,
hey, really good insurance at great prices that they can actually underwrite
extremely low loss ratios. And so yeah, totally. They're actually super strong.
And they yeah, I agree, are an insurer tech company. They're not what you would
traditionally think of as a deep tech company. But for us it still fit the
mandate because we talk about democratization in infrastructure. They are the
rising tide that will lift all ships if they make these robots easier to get out
to the wild, easier to ensure they also have a compliance product. If they make
those things work well, then they pave the way for for more deep tech companies
to to come through. And this is.

[00:50:56] **Audrow Nash:** Where it spins up that flywheel.

## [00:50:58] Glacier Robotics

[00:50:58] **Brannon Jones:** Spins up the flywheel. Yeah. It is nice to have a,
a, you know, a bigger AlleyCorp team because then I can go over to our
diversified tech team. They look at insurer tech all the time, and I can say,
hey, I can underwrite the quality of the robotics market. You look at a true
tech all the time. Give me an expert opinion here. They quickly looked at it and
we said this is a no brainer. So, Koop with a K, we really like that glacier
because another one they do recycling robotics. So they would go into material
recycling facilities. That process all the recycling for major urban centers.
And right now people are just doing it by hand sorting, you know, white plastic
and green plastic in this type from that time. And they've got a robotic
algorithm which can identify the type of plastic, what it is, and then quickly
send an arm to grab it, and it's got like two arms and hang down camera and it
will sort them into the bins, extremely reliably, quickly, effectively, in some
critical structure.

[00:51:58] **Audrow Nash:** I've seen a number of robotics startups in Europe
that are working on this. I don't think any of them have gone anywhere. Why? Why
is this hard? And why are they likely to succeed in Europe? Perspective. Yeah.

[00:52:14] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. So this is hard for two reasons. Probably
more than two reasons. Two reasons that I think are top of mind. One of them is
that it is a legacy industry that has not seen a lot of automation. And so even
when you're trying to make the business case to some of these recycling
facilities, they're still trying to figure out how they quantify it, how they
measure it, where the gains really are. And they're not always, the most excited
to adopt robotics. So you really have to have a high ROI. It's one of the
reasons why we left Glacier. Second reason why.

[00:52:47] **Audrow Nash:** Their ROI like ballpark.

[00:52:50] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. So there are times lag will be. Yeah. Right.
In terms of actual actual payback on the machine. So. Well, I don't want to
butcher this, but I think they allow facilities to make their money back within.
It's it's definitely less than a year. But I was going to say six months, so
something something like that.

[00:53:09] **Audrow Nash:** Well, it's a big difference.

[00:53:12] **Brannon Jones:** It is a big difference between six year. Yes. But,
what they also allow is for you to really scale up, scale up your operations to
your recycling facility industry. And one of the things is that, that I like
about them, why they, I think they're going to be successful is actually, I
think, within their technology. So one of the areas where they shine the most is
in their ability to actually identify, identify those materials that are coming
down the conveyor to actually see what kind of plastic it is. Quickly. And it's
actually a very challenging visual problem because they're not sorted well,
they're stacked on top of each other. They're dirty, they're folded over,
they're crushed. They don't look anything like their original form factor. So
you can't even really use standard terms of AI and say, this is a can because it
don't even look like you can anymore. So that is then their proprietary
technology. And one of the founders spent a lot of time doing, like building
vision models for meta. And that was kind of their core expertise. So they have
a phenomenal team. They built tech that's better than, than anyone else, trying
to do that. And so that's, that's what we're confident about that.

[00:54:20] **Audrow Nash:** Cool. So yeah, maybe that was the problem with a lot
of the European ones is the labeling was really hard to figure out what's the
right type for here and there. And maybe with like modern AI, you're able to
very effectively learn which ones go where, and then it can figure out all sorts
of clever distinctions that it can pick up on. When sorting.

## [00:54:46] Civ Robotics

[00:54:46] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, that's 100%. And then when you actually do
that, now you're capturing data that the Murph that the recycling facility
didn't have before, they don't actually know fully what's coming down. They
don't know where it's coming from. And they're two people that care about that.
One is a recycling facility. So they understand their operations too. Are the,
companies who are actually creating the material that gets recycled, whether you
are, beverage company or, you know, maybe you make toothpaste bottles or
something like that. Now, you know what your footprint is if it's actually
getting tracked. So they also add this massive digitization layer to the
industry, which they'd never had before. And there's a lot of really cool
traction from the market, because the excitement from, from that. So, sorry
about that one. Our last one, that's maybe more on the mobile side. I mean, we
we do have more or less what I'll mention here is called Civ Robotics. They are
for the solar panel industry. And what they'll allow you to do is if you're
going to go build a large, massive solar field, they have a rover that will go
out and it will mark the areas where you need to put the where you need to put
the pylon. So, just automates that portion of surveying solar fields. They've
got 100 robots in the field, like, more than many companies that we see. And
they're at an early stage making money. And, that's growing and growing really
fast. So excited about that one, too.

## [00:56:08] Investment Challenges

[00:56:08] **Audrow Nash:** Oh, yeah. Seems like an awesome portfolio. They seem
like all good companies. Okay, so I would love to see just your thoughts on a
lot of things related to robotics investment. Sure. One of the things that has
been interesting to me is I've met a number of companies that I consider quite
promising, but at the same time, it doesn't look like their market is large
enough to justify venture capital investment. Like, it's like they'll do a
they'll do a thing, they'll be profitable, but they might 10x or 50x or
something like this. But it's not like knock it out of the park. Amazing. So
they're getting passed over by a lot of investors. How, so what it seems to me
is it'd be really nice if there was some sort of like, robotics investor with a
longer time horizon or more conscious of hardware or, it's like smaller, fewer
bets where the odds of the companies succeeding are higher than they typically
are in venture capital, where you put a lot into a ton of startups and some are
wildly successful and most die out. Do you do you kind of understand the problem
that I'm trying to describe and absolutely do? How do you think of it? Because
it makes it so that robotics is hard to fund. And I would really like if there
was a better solution for this. What do you think?

[00:57:46] **Brannon Jones:** Yes, I agree, but I think this goes back to
something that I was saying earlier, which is that the rules for deep tech
actually still are.

[00:57:54] **Audrow Nash:** Being established.

[00:57:55] **Brannon Jones:** At the times. Yeah, they're still being
established. You know, a lot of investors, I believe are getting wrong right now
is that they're trying to apply the same framework from SaaS on to deep test,
but it's actually very different in terms of how these companies commercialized.
To your point, take a little bit more capital upfront. They can take longer
timelines. But after that they actually tend to not need as much, whereas a
software company needs much less at the beginning. But as it scales, then it
actually needs a lot, because now you've got competition, because your technical
differentiation is very challenging to maintain. And so you need to maintain
this thing through distribution, through for user experience marketing. So it
actually flips it on its head. Where in the venture world there's so much risk
ahead when you're investing in software, even if you're solving a great problem,
you know, the bulk of your spend, the bulk of your risk mitigation is actually
coming down the road. Deep tech's actually a little bit in the reverse. So what
it lets you do is say, hey, I know that this is solving the problem. And we try
to be really, really quantified about this. It's like we call it like your value
creation multiple. We really try to understand, okay, for every dollar that the
robotics companies customer is going to give them, how many dollars can that
customer now go get in exchange, either in savings or an increased rate of oh.

[00:59:12] **Audrow Nash:** Look at this in advertising, where it's like, if
you're advertising brings in more than you spend, then it's free advertising and
you can keep advertising. That's right. So you're saying the same kind of thing
from a company perspective because it lets the company scale and thus it's a no
brainer from the company's perspective. Cool.

[00:59:29] **Brannon Jones:** So they pay you $1 a month for your robot in $10 a
month. That's great. You see a ten x multiple. You know that that person is
going to try, their hardest. They're going to advocate for that. That's making a
real difference for the business. Now, if you see something like that,
especially at their early stage, that's easier to underwrite. And you made the
point about 1050. That's not the 101,000 x. You're right. But consider that a
venture capital fund is a top decile fund that is one of the best performing
funds in the world. So what it means is that actually, if you can bring together
ten and 50, you can have a phenomenal fund, even though it doesn't look like the
traditional software fund. And I really, I really attribute that to kind of the,
the capital, the late stage capital bias that happens in software, which
certainly later stage tech companies need to raise money, but it's more about
scaling. I think it's a little bit more understood, and it's harder to rip out a
robot after you put one in than it is to switch software accounts. So that also
starts to give them a little bit more staying power, a little bit less risk as
they mature. What it means is that you can feel slightly more confident if you
see a very high value creation, multiple, in your early stage robotics company
that they are going to create some amount of value, going forward. And so even
if it's a smaller market, you think, hey, we can get a very valuable company
here, we can get one where we can we can make enough money for it to make sense
for a major firm. That's one that's kind of one reality, to it. And why it kind
of makes sense at the early stage. Also, though, well, actually, I'll stay on
the small, smaller markets. What also tends to happen is a lot of these can tend
to be not exactly winner take all, but have a very strong leader follower effect
where you can become the best in the industry. You can become an industry
standard. And I think part of that is because it's physical.

[01:01:30] **Audrow Nash:** I don't quite get what you mean. I'm not sure what
you're linking this idea to. What do you mean the follower effect and what?

[01:01:36] **Brannon Jones:** Oh yeah. So here's what I'm here's what I think is
that if, you are an e-commerce company and you have the option of using the same
hardware software that Amazon uses, or you could just use some random on off the
shelf, which when you come, you're probably going to do the Amazon one. And so
all.

[01:01:54] **Audrow Nash:** Things equal for.

[01:01:55] **Brannon Jones:** Sure, all things equal for sure. And I think with
robotics, because reliability is such, such a key parameter, if you see
something working in the wild, you're very, very much more likely to go ahead
and try to implement that yourself. And that's what I mean. The leader follower
effect, the leaders in the industry tend to pull on the a lot of others. Yeah.
So that's why you see like even you can even see even in classic machinery, like
how many types of robot arms are there out there. Yeah. Yes. Kawa ab Senate Kuka
you are. There's five right. That's it. Because they take so much of the mark.
So there's much more like concentration tends to be. And they tend to have a
very strong, pull market. So even if it's a smaller Tam, you can capture a lot
more of that than you could with software like how many accounting softwares are
there? Infinite. Yeah, I know.

[01:02:51] **Audrow Nash:** And how many CRMs are there and all this other.
That's right. Infinite. Yeah, yeah.

[01:02:55] **Brannon Jones:** So that's the point that I was that's a cool
point.

[01:02:57] **Audrow Nash:** I like that I like that concentration related point.
Okay. How are you.

[01:03:04] **Brannon Jones:** But also deep tech companies have the biggest
markets too right. Providing energy to the world is enormous. So it doesn't
always have to be that way. And we do like personally like to have a mix of
things that we think can like, have a big proportion of a small market and also
play in a massive tent. So.

[01:03:20] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. You can have some moonshots in your portfolio
because if that works it'll be frickin incredible. That's right. And the other
ones are very likely to be successful but may not be like I know trillion dollar
companies or whatever. Yeah, I agree with you where I think, robotics has a
bigger moat than most software companies like once some company makes some good
UI, and has some feature and proves itself to be a good company, then you'll get
a ton of competitors that all do the similar thing. And so that that very small
competitive moat and so it's like that's when it's like all distribution, all
the advertising as you were mentioning, whereas robotics, there's a million hard
problems that a robotics company needs to solve to deploy and be reliable. And
it's a much higher cost for this kind of thing for new entrants to go in to
figure out all that. Again, it's almost like starting a completely different
startup.

[01:04:18] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, exactly. And the last piece I would say, and
this is not generally that venture capitalists think, but the last piece I will
say is if one of those companies does fail, there's a lot of valuable IP that's
created in that process. And so the failures tend to not be quite as severe,
because you can still sell it off for parts, so to speak, because there's a ton
of IP generated now. Yeah. We're not playing for the downside. We're playing for
the upside. But when you're just talking about what sort of an outcome do you
expect? Well, we're not expecting to have 50% of our companies be zeros because
we don't even think the fourth of these is zero. Even if they went out of
business today, there's a lot of IP that still be able to somebody.

[01:04:55] **Audrow Nash:** That's cool. I haven't thought of it from an IP
perspective. I think you're right there. Yeah. I mean, the software you develop,
the, infrastructure you develop for manufacturing, the know how you develop, the
founders you cultivate, like all of that is really valuable. So it's it's a
nice, nice way to look at it, too. And you can sell off the hardware. Worst
case. Yeah. Oh, hell yeah. Okay. Any other, any other things when thinking of
that, those were all very good points. I really thought that was a good answer.

[01:05:27] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, not so much in terms of of thinking about
like the, the Tam thing. I mean I think often about like.

[01:05:34] **Audrow Nash:** And also addressable market just if. Yeah that's
right. If people then know. So like how much could you possibly make if you had
all of it for this kind of thing.

[01:05:45] **Brannon Jones:** That's exactly right. Yeah. How many of these
things are bought at a year? How many people around the world use it? Is that a
big number of people? Small number of people? And I think one thing I guess I
maybe I'll, I'll say I'm curious to hear your, your thoughts and if it jives,
which you're seeing and hearing from other robotics founders, but what feels
different now compared to robotics investing five, ten years ago is not only the
transformation in technology, but the speed at which the founders, I think some
of that is because, again, we talked about the education that they got at some
of those more mature deep tech companies. Some of it's because, the practice of
entrepreneurship has become more quantified. Some of it is because AI tools are
speed people up. But the hardware companies of today, you could even take, for
example, figure robotics within a couple of years, they're, you know, in talks
to, to raise around 1.5 billion around it, $39 billion gone crazy. Is it is
crazy. But the speed at which that company moves is much more like how software
traditionally thinks. And so you're seeing some of that come over into robotics
that I think is fundamentally the biggest difference in why some of these
companies are being successful. I also think it's one of the things that not
enough founders are getting correct, which is just ship, ship, ship, create new
iterations, try new things, test subsystems and put them in, do it in a low cost
way. Just do enough to test the critical function and get it back it. And you
should be really going through those iterations as fast as you can. I had a
company tell us that they made over 100 different iterations of the robot in a
period of like six months, and this wasn't 100 like design conceptualizations,
it was a hundred physical instantiations of their robot. You know, most of those
were small, small tweaks. Yeah, small tweaks, but they're doing it because
they're getting it in front of it. They have a customer come to their shop and
they put it in front of them, and they have them try it and they observe, and
then they make a bunch of changes. They were doing things 3D printing
subsystems, sticking it together with like putty and stuff, just enough so they
can test the core system. And then if it worked, they'd go and do a full build
out and they'd integrate it into their design. But they were going through those
rifts so fast. And to my awesome about learning, that's what makes all the
difference. And actually in like robotics manufacturing, the actual process of
building the robot itself is so key for the quality of the robot going through
the manufacturing, just to go through the manufacturing teaches you how to make
it, how to make it quickly where you could trim out waste, how to get those
parts to sync well together. And so you can come out with a product that's very
reliable and very low cost. And then you can see, hey, where can we actually
increase quality? Where do I failures tend to be? And then you can increase
quality. So I think that's actually one of the reasons why for example China DJI
unitary all a bunch of their other robotics initiatives are growing so quickly
is because if you're in Shenzhen you go pick up the parts, within hours, you
stick it in, you'll do another rest. And the more you do those revisions, the
more you're actually understanding the hardware. Whereas I think there has been
too much of a traditional approach of thinking about, okay, what order apart it
gets here in weeks, we'll test it in weeks and then we'll make a change. And
there's just no way to compete with a feedback loop that slow in. The software
doesn't operate that way. There's shipping no new version all the time. They so
the best robotics companies are moving much more towards that axis. And I think
honestly US has certainly the advantage in terms of IP technical know how
talent. But this is almost no replacement for that manufacturing speed. And so
that's what I want to see from a lot of startups, is just going through those
cycles as fast as possible. Yeah, pretty good outcomes.

## [01:09:50] Market-Focused Startups

[01:09:50] **Audrow Nash:** Oh yeah. Yeah, I totally agree. And I think one of
the things that I noticed with this related so I've been podcasting, with Robo
Hub and then sense think act and now the Audrow Nash podcast for like 12 years
or something like that. And so I've been interviewing startups this whole time.
And the thing that stands out to me is companies are becoming market focused,
and that makes it so that they're pragmatic and they get out there quickly and
they learn versus just being happy with the technology. A lot of people, it
seems like we're just building things because they enjoyed building things and
they weren't going to the customers and they would move slowly to perfect it
before ever putting it in front of a customer. And I feel like I've seen a very
large change in the types of people that are found in companies now, in the last
few years. And, I'm curious to talk about like, a thing that I've noticed. So
I'm in Texas. I'm talking to a lot of the robotics community in Texas, in my
opinion. And maybe this is an area for you guys to look into more. But I've met
a lot of the best market focused founders here of anywhere I've been. I lived in
the Bay for a while. And I'm from New England, and I was out in Michigan for a
while and things like this. But it's it's an interesting thing, and I think that
them being market focused leads to them being pragmatic and making choices where
they can iterate quickly. They try to get the product in front of customers
quick, get the customer paying early, all these things like this. But do you
have any thoughts on this?

[01:11:40] **Brannon Jones:** I mean, yes, but let me just make sure I
understand your question correctly. You're thinking about you're talking about
like location, like within Texas. Are we seeing things or you're talking about
in general market focus? Yeah.

[01:11:52] **Audrow Nash:** Or you asked how I, what I thought, was the speed
thing, and I don't, I don't fully know what it is because a lot of the things
you mentioned, AI, better open source software, them coming out of these great
companies. So then, my, my thought is, I don't know why this is occurring, but I
am seeing a different breed of founder in the last year. And then a little thing
within there was, I'm seeing really good ones in Texas, which is really
interesting to me. But kind of digression for this kind of thing.

[01:12:27] **Brannon Jones:** We too are seeing really good ones in Texas.
Actually. We have companies in Texas too. Yeah, we are seeing really good ones
in Texas. And it's fun to see the tech hub emerge there. What I will say is
you're 100% spot on about the founders who now have a market focus. And I think
there's a function of a couple of things. One of the big things is that some of
the enabling technologies have made robotics more accessible, deep tech more
accessible, actually building a hardware product and more accessible. What that
what that means is that if you're an expert now in logistics, you can come up
with a robotics idea, even if your background training is not in robotics. And
that was never the case before when you had to have the researchers doing
everything fully custom. So yeah, when you get that, you have a person who not
only knows how to move with the culture, like the cultural speed of business and
entrepreneurship, but you have someone who's got a very deep insight into what
the actual problem was, which was the missing link. In the past, when you had
researchers coming out say, hey, when someone want to use this great gizmo. And
I was like, that's great, but I don't understand how to use it now, they know
exactly not only how it should be used, but again, the human acceptance testing,
how people think about using it, how it fits with their preconceived model of
the world and their preconceived model of their business operation. So I think
what you're saying is 100% correct. And we're actually seeing many of our CEOs,
CEO of Aescape not a classical roboticist, came from the lifestyle industry, and
that's why he's doing so well here. Many of our CEOs not classical roboticists,
but industry experts, and they have a brilliant wizard of a CTO and engineering
team, of course. But I think what you're seeing is indicative of the fact that
there's more interest in it and there's more accessibility to start to build a
deep tech company than it was in the past.

## [01:14:17] Early Robotics Investments

[01:14:17] **Audrow Nash:** I think you're spot on. I think that's a is probably
accessibility and making it so that people who are market focused rather than
just like super amazing roboticists can start these companies. That's super
cool. What are you. So one thing that I notice about a lot of investment firms,
you guys included, is it's a lot of pre-seed to series A, are the ones that I
think of that are primarily focusing explicitly on robotics. It gets harder when
you get I mean, even like, you guys are saying your seed and pre-seed mostly
some time series A, and I'm seeing that quite a bit. Why do you think that is?
And do you think like first, do you agree? Second, do you do. Why do you think
that is? If it's true and then, where do you imagine this going in the future?
Like, will you guys have big wins and then start investing in later ones in five
years? Or how do you think of the investment ecosystem and why are we mostly
pre-seed and seed?

[01:15:18] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, yeah, yeah. So definitely have some thoughts
on that. But I think it's mainly about the newness of the emerging class, the
emerging asset class of deep tech. And I think to be a good investor right now,
today in robotics, you got to understand the technology. You got to understand
AI, you got to understand it fundamentally. And if you're somebody who
understands it fundamentally, either of, you know, engineering or operations,
kind of a background or whatever sort of insight you're most useful at the early
stage, you're most useful to your founders. You can provide the most kind of
advice there. And that's one of the things that that we do. I mean, we provide,
of course, all sort of business advice, but there's been a number of times when
we've been saying, hey, here's how we have seen companies in general approaching
their supply chain challenges. Here's how we've seen them approach. Okay,
there's sort of initial pilot design. And then one of the things we do, which is
great about having a deep tech portfolio is when when one company has a
question, I just offer it to the rest of the portfolio. I had somebody say, hey,
I need to build a looks like prototype. And I was just telling you Aescape did
that so Well, like, you need to talk to the CEO of Aescape and they figured it
out. So there are shared learnings that are beginning to be developed as well
within the portfolio that, those learnings are still happening at such early
stages in the company. So that's that's part of where we can be most useful. So
that's from the founder perspective. Those early stage investors can be most
useful in deep tech. Now actually from the investor perspective, because a lot
of those investors have the core insight that I was talking about with that
background experience. That's actually where we can be the best investor. If you
look at an operating background, I believe that I have an edge when I'm looking
at an aerospace manufacturing, robotics company and I can understand, hey, this
could be used, this wouldn't be use, this would actually scale, this wouldn't.
Here's what we've seen. There's less of a question of will this tech work? Does
anybody want it at the later stages? And that's where you would probably have a
more classically financially oriented investor underwriting that. And so that's
why I think just because where the industry is the tech's changing so fast, many
of the investors and us, especially, we are specialists in a specialist, makes
the best decisions, has the most differentiated judgment and perspectives, and
could be most useful at the early stage. Now, when we talk about where is it
going to go? That will absolutely continue. People continue to specialize, but I
think you'll also see, greater expansion into those later stages. I'm not
totally sure. That's probably not what we're doing at AlleyCorp. Again. Our, our
our advantage is being operators where early stage, that's where we like to be.
That's where we're going to stay. But I think you'll see more of an emerging
market, to kind of provide capital for, that, that crossing the chasm phase. I
think that's going to take time. What I said at the beginning was that the rules
of deep tech are still unwritten, and I think we're going to start to see
companies that are doing really well in the market. And in some ways, the
investing landscape will have to catch up and say, oh, this is this is the kind
of thing I want to fund. One thing we do also see, though, is that. Right now,
it still can make sense even for there to be series B, series C, deep tech
investors. I think they can actually do really well due to what I think is a
short term information gap. Right now, inefficiency in the market, which is that
some asymmetry? Yeah. Which is that if we go and build a robot, there's a huge
difference between that robot being 85 and 99, 90 and 99, 99, 99.99% reliable.
As engineers, we would see that. We'd say, oh my goodness, this thing, it's
ready to ship, it's ready for commercialization. But what may be lagging from
that standpoint is the size of the commercial traction rovers. You may have many
interested pilots, you may have small orders and deployments. It will take some
time to get those in the field. You'll have to do some debugging. The customer
will have to use it and try and interact with it. And so even though we know
that these companies there, maybe they've gone from your series A, they're
trying to get their series B and they've really increased the reliability.
They've got deployments in the field. It's much more reliable, even though we
know that's a big difference. Some of the investors right now aren't actually
recognizing that has real traction because they're not trained to think that
way. I don't think it would be say that way forever. But for those investors who
are willing to jump in and do have the key insight are looking for the right
signals. What it means is that sometimes your series AA to series B prices are
not changing as much as the value of the company itself is actually changing.
And so I think you can actually get cheap prices in a way if you are a savvy
series B, series C investor. Right now. And so we try to maintain good
relationships with those kind of people that we, we, think have a great
perspective. So I actually do think there's a lot of room to win as a slightly
later seed investor. And then over time, that will mature.

[01:20:36] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah, that's my impression, too. I think that,
they're not, as you said, they're not trained to see that way. And thus it's
very, very difficult to get a series B funding as a robotics startup. It can be
difficult to but B is like a lot of companies die when they're reaching for
their B round, or at least they're like they get unfavorable terms or they get
an A like a bump up or something like this. But who are the specific I would
love if you can name some of the companies that you find very good for series B,
like A or B investment in robotics companies.

[01:21:17] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah for sure. And then there's, there's a bunch.
So I want to want to shout out to my. Oh yeah. But some of the ones we like to
work with a ton are like Eclipse Ventures. We really respect, the way that they,
that they think about it and they do their work, and they're willing to find a
winner back them, believe in them, and kind of see them through lead around f
prime. They do some of the best robotics investing around.

[01:21:46] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah from scratch them. I had Sanjay on, a little
while.

[01:21:49] **Brannon Jones:** Just wonderful. And they have some really well
developed thoughts and some insights in probably.

[01:21:55] **Audrow Nash:** Do a right. I don't think they do much.

[01:21:58] **Brannon Jones:** They do some do they do B they actually will do
some B yeah. Yeah for sure okay. That's awesome. But but probably end there. We
will do things with like Google Ventures. We will do things of course, with, you
know, the other names, the likes of these, the address, it's the costless. NEA
has been a great partner for us, too. So, yeah, definitely. Definitely, an
ecosystem that's emerging. And as interest in will biotics grows in general,
we're seeing more people play there. We've. Yeah. Equities. Another great one to
shout out. They're a great firm. So we see more investors kind of getting
interested in and and jumping into. But yeah we definitely have we definitely
have friends. We like to to send it to and talk to hell.

[01:22:52] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. Awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Because that that's good
to know. On a related note, I'll ask after too, but I would love to have I would
love to interview some of the people from these companies to get their
perspectives too. I would love a connection to any of the people from those
companies. Just I know, I know a bunch of investors that are like seed pre-seed
through like kind of a and it'd be nice. It'd be nice because there's so many
companies that are at series A and they're really struggling finding good
investors. So. Okay. Hell yeah.

[01:23:30] **Brannon Jones:** Chairman, there would be wonderful guest. And I
would be super curious to hear what they say to you too, right? Yeah. Yeah, that
that'd be super cool.

## [01:23:40] Humanoids

[01:23:40] **Audrow Nash:** Hell, yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, so you mentioned a lot
of interesting things. I'm kind of at a loss for which to go with. I would love
to hear your perspective, actually. So let's do kind of rapid fire, because
we're coming around to the end of the thing. I would love to. And I mean, like a
few minutes on each one. I'd love to hear your perspective on humanoids.

[01:24:05] **Brannon Jones:** Oh, yeah. So humanoids, one of the most complex
robotics challenges out there. So you think about really robotics needs to be
this harmony between the software and the hardware for every individual element,
and you need them to be able to understand and work together. And humanoids are
adding so many axes in degrees of freedom. And then you're throwing them in
highly dynamic environments. But like very unscripted and open ended. So it's a,
it's it's robotics on hard mode.

[01:24:34] **Audrow Nash:** That's super hard mode.

[01:24:36] **Brannon Jones:** So we believe in the ability for people to, to
build these in a platform where we will experiment. And then I right now
hesitate to jump in on humans. We haven't back to a humanoid company, yet. And a
lot of that is derived from what I was telling you before. But one of the key
metrics we look at, which is your value creation tool, if you want to create a
lot of value for your customer, it's super low, right? Right now they're
expensive, they're unreliable. And,

[01:25:04] **Audrow Nash:** They don't do that much to.

[01:25:06] **Brannon Jones:** And they don't do that much. Yeah. So it's hard to
create a value creation metric. So when we're trying to be principled right now,
when we look at it, we said, okay, we still think vertical AI robotics
platforms. I mean, they are what has been taking the majority of the, of the
funding. But we think they will continue to, to do that. Yeah. In the interim
now, I do expect there'll be some kind of hybrid that has more generalized
capability and intelligence, but isn't quite at the full humanoid level. So
maybe beyond just moving apart from A to B, you know, moved from A to B and
package it and sorted that sort of things. I think it'll start on a.

[01:25:41] **Audrow Nash:** Mobile base with one arm for that. Yeah.

[01:25:44] **Brannon Jones:** Exactly. It doesn't need to be. It doesn't need to
be humanoid, which right now it's still very hard to do. But I do believe that
that the cost of humanoids, the challenge of humanoids will come down. I just
think we're still three years out.

[01:25:57] **Audrow Nash:** Do you have a. Do you have any guess on the
timeline? Like, is it five year? Is it one year, five years, ten years, 15
whatever. Whatever you think.

[01:26:05] **Brannon Jones:** You know, it's hard to predict. It's hard to
predict. A year ago, I would have told you, you know, that we were probably
maybe two years ago I would have told you were ten years out. But even within
the last couple of years, the breakthroughs for robotics, for embodied
intelligence, as they call it, which is AI for for robots have been dramatic.
And you see skill, you see physical intelligence, you see efforts, in Nvidia for
project group. You see World Labs, all these efforts to say, hey, how can we
dramatically scale up the training, data, make the AI systems robust such that
robots can learn very fast. And I guess actually, Google's RT to RTX, models
where some of the progenitors of all of this and kicked it off so.

[01:26:54] **Audrow Nash:** So much good work came out of Google for all this.
It's absolutely unbelievable.

[01:26:58] **Brannon Jones:** Unbelievable. And they're still doing it. And the
DeepMind folks, I mean, really blown away. But I guess to say, what does it say
in the last 12, 18 months, we have seen more innovation in robotics AI than we
have in the last 5 or 10 years. So where's 2 to 2 years? Do I probably still do
ten years out? I probably think we're probably five years out. Okay. Now, before
we see, before we see a humanoid doing, something, useful.

[01:27:27] **Audrow Nash:** That's a pretty low bar for that. Because. Pretty
funny. I think the big something useful is something useful.

[01:27:35] **Brannon Jones:** Something useful, but useful. I mean, I mean,
creating more value than it than it cost. Yeah, yeah.

[01:27:42] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah, I agree, I, I'm not sure on the timeline. AI
the thing that I am not convinced on is the reliability of the systems and
safety of the systems, but, I'm very happy to be proven wrong. I would
absolutely love to have a humanoid in the house doing stuff.

[01:27:59] **Brannon Jones:** But yeah.

[01:28:00] **Audrow Nash:** We'll see.

[01:28:00] **Brannon Jones:** That is absolutely the challenge. But, I mean, I
think we're seeing some some parallels where reliability and safety, they really
do just take time out there in the wild. And so even you saw totally email
raising $6 billion. They're now deployed in Arizona, California, Texas, Georgia.
Right. They are getting out there. They are collecting the data. And there's
really nothing to replace that kind of a thing. So, I just think that that
happens a little bit with deployments in time.

## [01:28:32] Deglobalization

[01:28:32] **Audrow Nash:** Let's see, these next two, I wonder if we can lump
them together. Oh yeah. deglobalization. So you mentioned deglobalization at
some point or at least the idea of it occurring. And China. Tell me about these.
Yeah.

[01:28:45] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah. So I mean the real forces happening right
now, some, people looked at their supply chain infrastructure from during the
Covid times when it was hard to get anything as well. But now, with changes in
administration, changes in climate, there is more of a feeling of, hey, will
America be able to keep up from a technological standpoint with other places in
the world? You see that China was getting like many was getting like humanoid
robotics, at least from the US. But the number of even industrial products that
are fully made, sourced import in China is really increasing, in China. So, like
their global share of the market for robotics is probably 50%. It probably was
like only 30% five years ago even. And so, yeah, that's what I'm telling you
about iteration speed in manufacturing. Now, the manufacturing and robotics are
so interlinked that the better your robotics are, the better your manufacturing
is, the better. You can manufacture robots at low cost and high quality. And so
it really is a productive flywheel. And that's what I think. Not enough founders
do. I actually think it probably worthwhile for more robotics founders to just
go spend a week or two in Shenzhen and see how it's actually being built,
because it it will be so, so, so mind blowing. And that's why the trips we have
scheduled later this year in aliquot to go, to go, get boots on the ground. So,
I think like, for example, unitary robotics, is one of the, their top robotics
companies, Hangzhou. And they are really putting a lot of emphasis behind it.
China, like, is putting a lot of emphasis behind them and believes in them. And
in some ways, I mean, we we actually see them doing some interesting demos,
dancing, doing choreography where he, even Tesla, Optimus is like not not doing
stuff quite like that with, it so in some ways you're seeing, oh, they actually
are starting to like something that could be more of a viable, viable humanoid.
And then there are many commitments, by the administration, by private
companies, they are paying to say, hey, we're going to spend $14 billion on
robotics over the next ten years. So they're just really, really all in seeing
that as kind of an edge. And, I think it's absolutely driving innovation
forward. I think that, yeah, for something like that to happen now, we need more
of these startups to, to.

[01:31:21] **Audrow Nash:** Compete in the US now in the US.

[01:31:22] **Brannon Jones:** In the US. Sorry. Now in the US, it's probably
twice as expensive or more, to build a similar robot arm completely sources in
the US versus there. So if you think about okay, people are trying to build
redundant supply chains here, it's just going to be it's going to be more
expensive. And I think we need to leverage some of the advantages that we have,
some of the advantages and technology in talent. We just talked about all the
great stuff coming out of DeepMind. If we are going to try to build capabilities
and other folks don't have, and a lot of that needs to give us the ability to,
to iterate. So those are kind of my higher level thoughts, but they right now
are positioning themselves to reach extremely high levels of automation and have
autonomous factories and things in it. And, yeah.

[01:32:12] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. What what do you think about, the US and
Mexico? Like, a lot of manufacturing could be done in Mexico.

[01:32:21] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah, I think it's a great idea. I, I personally
yeah, I've liked it. And, I think that that near showing approach makes a lot of
sense. And you can take advantages from, differences in labor costs and still
the cost, but I so for me, that feels like, a great, a great path forward. And I
know that some companies are working on that and building some foundries there.

## [01:32:48] Hype vs. Reality in Robotics

[01:32:48] **Audrow Nash:** Okay. Oh, yeah. So one last thing before starting to
close, do you, I would love to hear what you think. Given all of the attention
on embodied AI and just all the hype around robotics at this time, what do you
think is hype and what do you think is reality like, and how do you think about
these two things? Because, I mean, a big part of being a successful investor is
distinguishing these two things. Hype and reality. How do you think about it,
and where do you think we actually are?

[01:33:27] **Brannon Jones:** Look, there have been transformative breakthroughs
since Apple level changes. What I would posit is that the only companies that
are actually benefiting right now from AI, the demos that we're seeing, that
we're seeing, oh, they're so interesting. It's really just kind of picking place
or, you know, and they can shove, they're saying, oh, watch this, cook a fancy
meal. But the onions are all chopped, the carrots are sliced, and it's just
moving. It's just pushing around the carrots in a bowl. It's just pick and
place. It's just a we can do faster object identification and put a thing from
here to there. And it's super important to be able to recognize an object to
understand where should I pick it up? Where should I grab it. But they're not
doing some of those more, more kind of intense, and dexterous and complicated,
tasks right now. I mean, they couldn't unroll a Ravel of tape. Even so, it's,
you know, so when you're thinking about, okay, packaging things up, most of it's
still done in classic automation. It would be very hard even to, like, fold up a
box. It's all kind of still just picking a place. And we're seeing these awesome
models, these visual language models like, you know, Google's got their, their
Gemini robotics, model that they are showing some cool breakthroughs in terms of
the robot understanding its environment. But I think there needs to be a little
bit more time for one hardware to catch up for dexterity. And I guess
proprioception would just be the robot's inability to understand where it is in
space and how to move. People are working on things like that. People are, you
know, making different actuators that work more like muscle fibers, such that
robots can move more like humans, which value that is. Then they can actually
learn better from humans, slightly more in a transferable way. From like a
recording of, a human or etc. but, yeah, right now we seem a little bit capped
still. And I think we're, I'm personally kind of waiting to see, okay, who can
do the next level of, of utility. If you're going to have a generalized
platform, you need a little bit more generalized function then. But I think
we're.

[01:35:41] **Audrow Nash:** Seeing that pick in place. Yeah yeah yeah. Because
pick and place I mean what we've been able to do that for a long time now. We
can do it. That's right. But yeah okay. And maybe looking out 3 or 5 years.
What's your outlook on the robotics industry? I bet you're pretty bullish on it.
But I would love to hear your perspective.

[01:36:04] **Brannon Jones:** Yeah I absolutely I absolutely are bullish on it.
I think that we're going to see robotics enter domains where they haven't
classically been the same. I think that for example, retail is going to be a big
space actually. We started looking at this and thinking about this and that's
what brought us to that. EyeBot investment in the first place. We were, just
looking at where the labor shortages were going to be the most intense we saw
retail was a big space. We looked at our deal flow like the last thousand
robotics companies we had seen and we saw and mapped those onto the spaces,
actually, where where labor shortages are predicted. Well, we saw was that there
was a disproportionately low amount of robots that we were pitched in the retail
space, despite the fact that there were going to be high labor shortages. That
to us, made us think there's an opportunity for people to build here. We think
that good retail solutions, robotics, retail solutions can do quite well. That's
what made us, identify. EyeBot, which is, fitting a little bit into that retail
model. So classically under automated areas retail, we think hospitals,
agriculture in some ways, we think possibly even more domestic situations, like
within offices. We're seeing some folks start to build businesses there. Yeah.
It's been it's been pretty interesting. I think those would be areas where we
see there's been a lot of effort around robotics and cooking. I think that's
probably slightly further out. But, automation within those areas where
classically there hasn't been a lot, are ripe areas, in our mind. Hell yeah.

[01:37:41] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. I agree with you on a lot of the spaces. I
think cooking is a long way out. And agriculture, I think like, I'm really
excited about a lot of the outdoor mobile robots, like agriculture, mining,
maybe like moving stuff around a construction site. There's constructions. And
simple, simple things like, bot built and they're not simple, but things like
framing for example. Yeah, yeah. Very exciting.

[01:38:07] **Brannon Jones:** Very nice. Yeah. We've looked hard at that kind of
robotic housing, sector. We really want to make a bet there. We haven't yet, but
we would love to. And I totally agree with you. It's it's right on the horizon.

## [01:38:19] Key Takeaways

[01:38:19] **Audrow Nash:** Yeah. For sure. Let's see. So what do you hope
people take away from this interview?

[01:38:28] **Brannon Jones:** So two things. One, I think that I would love for
them to think of be AlleyCorp as some of the most, forward thinking robotics
investors at the early stage and deep tech investors across manufacturing,
aerospace, robotics. So yes, please think of us. I would love for them to sort
of think of the northeast and the deep tech ecosystem. They're so into it, build
in it. Yeah. Yeah, really consider it. And then I would love for more, deep tech
founders to, think about how they're building quickly think about those
iteration cycles. Think about how can you actually speed this up from a first
principles standpoint? As well, because I think we need we need a lot of, of
great winners. One, to attract talent, to attract capital, but also to bring
those innovations to people who need them and create that value. So I think
those are some of the, some of the big things. And I also think more robotics
companies should market themselves, because it's it's great for people to see
what humanity can do with this kind of technology.

[01:39:33] **Audrow Nash:** Totally agree. Oh yeah. Well, this has been a lot of
fun. Thank you for coming on and I appreciate talking with you.

[01:39:39] **Brannon Jones:** Audrow, thank you so much for having me. This is
great time.

[01:39:43] **Audrow Nash:** Alright. Bye everyone.
